h2. Robotlegs Framework Changelog:

h3. v1.3.0

*ApplicationDomain*
Added applicationDomain getter/setter to IInjector to help with Application Domains.

h3. v1.2.0

*MediatorMap.mapView*
The injectViewAs parameter is changed from expecting a Class to expecting a Class or an Array of Classes.

h3. v1.1.2

*ASDocs*
Build script updated to bundle ASDocs into SWC for inline display in Flash Builder 4. Build needs to be run against Flex SDK 4.x

h3. v1.1.1

*Mediator*
Fixed: http://github.com/robotlegs/robotlegs-framework/issues/#issue/6

h3. v1.1.0

*SwiftSuspenders*
Updated SwiftSuspenders to v1.5.1
PLEASE NOTE: mapValue no longer injects into the value instance - the old behaviour was incorrect.

*Injector*
Added IInjector#hasMapping(clazz:Class, named:String = ""):Boolean;
Added IInjector#getInstance(clazz:Class, named:String = ""):*;
Added IInjector#createChild():IInjector;

*CommandMap*
Added ICommandMap#execute(commandClass:Class, payload:Object = null, payloadClass:Class = null, named:String = ''):void
Added ICommandMap#unmapEvents() - unmaps all event mappings
Added ICommandMap#detain() and release() - enables Async Commands

*Mediator*
Added mvcs.Mediator EventMap Sugar: addViewListener() and addContextListener()

*Misc*
mvcs.Context: CommandMap and MediatorMap are handed child injectors - to enable non-destructive temporary mappings.
Deprecated IContextProvider

h3. v1.0.3

Fixed: http://github.com/robotlegs/robotlegs-framework/issues#issue/2

h3. v1.0.2

Fixed: http://github.com/robotlegs/robotlegs-framework/issues#issue/2

h3. v1.0.1

Updated SwiftSuspenders to v1.0.1

h3. v1.0.0

Whammo, and the Robot has Legs. We managed to avoid hitting double digits for the RCs!

h3. v1.0RC9

Fixes to SwiftSuspenders

h3. v1.0RC8

Added IMediatorMap.unmapView()

h3. v1.0RC7

ViewMap.mapClass() changed to ViewMap.mapType()

h3. v1.0RC6

Internal changes: ContextBase cleaned up - initialize() removed. Overriding the default apparatus:

    public function MyContext()
    {
	    injector = new SwiftSuspendersInjector(xmlConfig);
	    super();
    }

h3. v1.0RC4/5

Fixes to SwiftSuspenders

h3. v1.0RC3

Removed nometa package

h3. v1.0RC2

CommandMap Bug fix

h3. v1.0RC1

No changes

h3. v0.9.8 - Untitled4

Removed ICommand

*MediatorMap*
Merged MediatorMap#mapModule into MediatorMap#mapView
New view mapping signature
mapView(viewClassOrName:*, mediatorClass:Class, injectViewAs:Class = null, autoCreate:Boolean = true, autoRemove:Boolean = true):void

h3. v0.9.7 - XtensibleMixdownLoafers

Enabled XML configuration of injection points

h3. v0.9.6 - PanelBeaten

Added the dispatch() helper method back to mvcs actors
Removed named injection points

*MediatorMap*
Enabled automatic creation of mediator for contextView if mapped

*ContextBase*
Made all ContextBase constructor arguments optional to enable declarative (mxml) Context instantiation

*Nometa*
Introduced Nometa implementation

*Actor*
Unified Model and Service into Actor
Removed Model
Removed Service

*EventMap*
Added strong event mapping to EventMap

*CommandMap*
Re-ordered the mapping arguments
From: mapEvent(commandClass:Class, eventType:String, eventClass:Class = null, oneshot:Boolean = false):void
To: mapEvent(eventType:String, commandClass:Class, eventClass:Class = null, oneshot:Boolean = false):void

h3. v0.9.5 - BigMistake2

Removed dispatchEvent() helper method - Again, really sorry about that little mixup there

*Mediator*

addEventListenerTo() becomes eventMap.mapListener()

h3. v0.9.4 - WhatProxyWhere?

Proxy renamed to Model

h3. v0.9.3 - Untitled3

CommandMap bugfix

h3. v0.9.2 - Untitled2

No changes!

h3. v0.9.1 - BigMistake1

dispatch() helper method renamed to dispatchEvent()

h3. v0.9 - ElasticChaos

Removed "as3commons-logging":http://www.as3commons.org/
Removed EventBroadcaster

MediatorFactory renamed to MediatorMap
CommandFactory renamed to CommandMap
IInjector.bind* renamed to IInjector.map*

*ICommandMap*
CommandMap now accepts optional Event class parameter for stronger mapping.
The argument order had to be re-arranged so that the optional eventClass would come after the mandatory commandClass.

From: mapEvent(type:String, commandClass:Class, oneshot:Boolean = false):void;
To: mapEvent(commandClass:Class, eventType:String, eventClass:Class = null, oneshot:Boolean = false):void;

*Constructor Injection*
Changed all automated instantiation to use IInjector#instantiate to enable constructor injection, changed DI adapters accordingly and added new SwiftSuspenders support constructor injection

*Bonus Adapters Removed*
Removed Spring Action Script and SmartyPants-IOC adapters (they can be installed separately)

h3. v0.8.1 - SwiftyPants

Added adapters for "SwiftSuspenders":http://github.com/tschneidereit/SwiftSuspenders

h3. v0.8 - ByeByeFlex

FlexMediator decoupled from Flex and merged into Mediator
Removed FlexMediator

h3. v0.7 - ShortWave

Added dispatch() helper method

h3. v0.6 - Untitled1

Introduced "as3commons-logging":http://www.as3commons.org/

h3. v0.5.2 - TheRegister

IMediator.onRegisterComplete renamed to IMediator.onRegister

h3. v0.4 - OrganDonor

net.boyblack.robotlegs.* renamed to org.robotlegs.*

h3. v0.3 - ElastoBoot

Added Spring ActionScript adapters
Provided adapters: "SmartyPants-IOC":http://smartypants.expantra.net/
Provided adapters: "SpringActionScript":http://www.springactionscript.org/

h3. v0.2 - ReversiblePants

Introduced DI and reflection adapters
Provided adapters: "SmartyPants-IOC":http://smartypants.expantra.net/

h3. v0.1

Proof-of-concept prototype
